you don't want to just not save any
money you got to be strategic with it
there are three reasons why you should
be saving money you save money for an
emergency save money for a big purchase
you want to buy a car you want to buy a
house you need some cash to do that save
money for an investment if you're not
saving money for one of these three
reasons
you are saving your money the wrong way
and your savings are literally making
you poorer each and every day
while your friends were spending their
money at a party you're spending money
on building a business right like that
fundamental difference of spending it on
fun that goes away yeah or equity
in this case your own company
is a world of difference yeah so i just
want to anchor everybody back around to
those like money habits you've got what
all my mom would have called pissing
money away right literally in alcohol
you're just pissing that money away yeah
um
or putting it into something that's
going to go to work for you in your case
it was a business it was real estate
yeah and if people can just grab that
fundamental difference
like of
hey start thinking about the world in
this different way they're going to be a
huge step forward and it's all a
learning process because i don't drink i
don't smoke i never drink but for me it
was
the only it was it was a hustle right it
was the only way that i knew to kind of
start making some money
um and so it's how you start and you
learn and
each one of the things that you kind of
do you're going to learn something new
and you're going to be able to apply
that to the next thing and it really is
that shift you know i call it the
minority mindset thinking differently
than the majority of people because it's
it's doing something different most of
us are taught just to be consumers yeah
we're talking about time for money to go
buy cool things to flex exactly and
that's it we're never taught to do
anything else and i mean
think about the last time your teachers
taught you about the importance of
investing your money they don't know how
to do it either exactly they couldn't
hope to teach me and and so that's where
you have to be willing to go out of your
way to learn how some of these things
work because if you don't you're just
going to be a pawn in the system and
it's very unfortunate it sucks and you
know this is where i'm trying to help
provide that education because these are
things i never grew up learning these
are things that i wish somebody would
have told me uh you know i see it i see
it in so many people
i used to guest teach in detroit public
schools
whoa and you know these are good kids
from rough areas a lot of times don't
have two parents in the home sometimes
don't even have a parent in the home
there were some kids he didn't have or
his mom is not around he was raised by a
gang
just because there's no parents and so
they provided him shelter
and it's crazy because
you get stuck into a system a cycle
because you don't have any way of
learning or seeing anything else
and you know like one of the first times
i was
there i asked the kids how many guys
have a job
most of them raise their hand most of
them have an income and they're in high
school right they're going to school and
they're working and next question is how
many of you have a bank account
nobody not a single person had a bank
account jesus man so i was like what do
you so how do you guys what do you do
with your money so we get a check we go
to the liquor store
we cash the check now the liquor store
is going to take you know one to ten
percent of that check oh god and then
what are you gonna you're gonna buy
candy you're gonna buy pop you're gonna
buy a bunch of dumb stuff on your way
out and now you're left with only half
of your check and now what do you do is
this i like to call it net zero thinking
where if i have cash i need to spend it
i have five hundred dollars on a bank
account i gotta make that zero if i have
a thousand dollars i gotta spend it
because we think oh my god if i had ten
grand i would go on this nice vacation
if i had 50 grand i would buy this car
we think in terms of it's the consumer
mindset of if i have this money i need
to spend it but this is where we have to
break out of that and understand
what can we do differently and instead
of just spending all of this money and
it's much more difficult now because of
the higher cost of living but it's so
much more important now than ever
where you got to create this margin
i call it like an equation where you
know your wealth is really
you take your income minus your expenses
and that's equal to your investments
plus your savings so you take your
income whatever money you make you
subtract your expenses your houses your
home your clothes your car whatever your
expenses are and if you have some money
left either this money is going to be
saved or it's going to be invested
well if you have some money left you're
already you know doing something that a
lot of people are not doing you're more
than the majority of people right now i
just read a study yesterday 7 out of 10
americans across the board are living
paycheck to paycheck
50 of americans that are making 250 000
a year are living paycheck to paycheck
that's crazy it's not how much money you
make it's what you do with the money you
make that is so important and so now if
you have a buffer you're already better
than the majority of people now the
question is what do you do with it well
we're taught save it
save all of it so your investments are
zero and your savings you're trying to
grow that thinking that you're trying to
you're going to become wealthy but
you're never going to be able to out
save inflation you're gonna your savings
are literally making you poorer each and
every day however you don't want to just
not save any money you got to be
strategic with it what i like to say is
there are three reasons why you should
be saving money you save money for an
emergency have somewhere between three
to twelve months worth of expenses
depending on your risk tolerance
save money for a big purchase you want
to buy a car you want to buy a house you
need some cash to do that
save money for an investment if you're
not saving money for one of these three
reasons
you are saving your money the wrong way
and it's making you poorer each and
every day now you didn't say save for
retirement
you invest for retirement you know you
talk about retirement
time we're about to face a big
retirement crisis because traditionally
retirement was what people like to call
a three-legged stool you had your social
security you had your pension and then
you had your own investments or your
savings what a lot of people like to do
well
pensions are something you only read in
history books anymore they're a thing of
the past so those don't exist anymore
social security is running into a very
very very big dilemma because right now
if you are
you know under the age of 45
the social security money that you're
paying isn't going to go to fund your
social security income it's going to
fund somebody else to retire because the
social security program
has much bigger expenses than income and
so it is on the path of being completely
dried up of just running out of money is
this because the younger demographics
are just a smaller cohort than the older
or
there's a lot of reasons for it it's how
the social security money is spent it's
it's how many people are requiring
social security money how long people
are living for how long these social
security checks have to go out for
a lot of bad calculations bad investing
and so in the social security fund is
now drying up
and so now everyone says well i'm not
worried about it because the government
can just print more money and do bigger
social security checks that's what we're
seeing this year we saw between 2021 and
now the biggest social security raise
ever is between five and six percent
something in that range which one is
already not keeping up with inflation so
yeah you got a bigger social security
check but oh no it's not buying you as
much as you could of last year
but then the second issue is just think
about that for a second
if the government is going to print more
money which means the fed is going to
print money give that to the government
to give you bigger social security
checks what does that mean you got a
bigger check
great but now the cost of things have
grown even faster than the growth of
your check you cannot out print
inflation it just creates more inflation
and so you know so you had the pension
that's that's essentially gone for the
vast majority of people social security
is not going to be able to fund your
retirement which leaves people with the
third stool which is your own
investments now traditionally you say
i'll save some money save 10 of your
income
that's not going to do it your savings
are going to make you poor each and
every day and the second thing is your
401k
and you know it's a great start for the
average investor because now it is like
automatic putting a little bit of money
into some investments however
your 401k was never ever ever intended
to be your sole investment plan the
founder of the 401k even came out and
said that the 401k has gone awry it is a
monster because now so many people are
hoping that they're going to be able to
rely on their 401k to retire and that's
not what it's intended for and it will
never be able to be enough for you
and so a lot of people have this false
hope that okay yeah whatever social
security will give me a little bit extra
but my 401k will take care of me but
that was never the plan and so now what
does that mean
your 401k just think of that like as if
you invest in your 401k your ira that is
the absolute base
your savings are not going to do it this
is where you have to go and invest
yourself and that's where oh my god how
do i do that we're never taught how to
do this we're never told how to do this
we're never given direction on how to do
this so you have to be the one now to go
out of your way to start learning this
and thank god for youtube because now
we've decentralized education but the
question is now
you have to be willing to do it and you
have to understand who your teachers are
because there's there's crap on youtube
there's also good stuff on youtube and
we're never taught how to learn we're
usually just taught what to learn so now
we have to be willing and go out of our
way to become
smarter to once start learning and
understand how do we learn the right
things and then apply it because
the downfall with investing is risky you
got to be willing to get punched in the
face you have to be willing to lose
money because it's a part of the process
and it sucks it sucks losing money i
made a video on uh my youtube channel
minority mindset where i went over
my worst real estate deal ever and the
reason why i made it so you can see look
every real estate investor has got at
least one bad deal and
to date that's the only deal that i've
ever lost money on and i walk you
through every single bad thing that i
mean because everything that could have
gone wrong went wrong plus a whole lot
more and it was one of the biggest
headaches of my life
but
my goal is you know yeah you can laugh
at me make fun of me but you're gonna
see like holy cow things can and will go
wrong so just anticipate it because
that's it's your real life tuition you
got to be willing to learn
and and you know it's a price to pay
and it's one of those things where you
know just like with entrepreneurship
everybody wants to be successful as an
entrepreneur everybody wants to be rich
how many people are going to be willing
to get punched in the throat and keep
going keep getting back up and keep
doing it it's very difficult which is
why you know what not everybody should
be an entrepreneur try it but it's not
for everybody
but everybody can work to own
this equity right this ownership these
assets and everybody needs to how much
did you pay
for your first share of ford motor
company two dollars
so this is what i want people to hear
and i'm glad it's coming from you i was
very honored to have wall street trapper
on as well because i want people that
are i know minority
um in the name of your program isn't
about being a literal ethnic minority
but it's about thinking in a new way but
having people that are minorities at
least in this country
say like hey if you do the right things
you're going to be able to change your
circumstance what do you say to people
that either think well it's okay
for other people but
for me either because i'm poor or i'm a
minority it's never going to work for me
so i'll give kind of give you the story
of my family in that sense because
the reason why people come to america
is because of opportunity
you have the opportunity to own
something
own a home potentially own equity in
companies build your own company you
have the opportunity to build something
which is something that you can't do in
a lot of other places in the world
my grandparents were refugees
they had some land
and in 1947
the state of punjab was severed
and when that happened if you were a
sikh which is the religion that i am and
you're on the west side either you
migrate east or you're going to be
killed well so now my grandparents
literally
all they had were the clothes on their
back and a sword in their hand and they
ran
during the process
my grandfather was attacked
and he had to literally fight for his
life he saw his uncle get his head
chopped open in front of him jesus put
him on a horse that was the last time he
saw him he got to the new east side of
punjab in india
and didn't even have shoes on his feet
didn't have a place to sleep had
literally nothing
now
from there you got to start right you
got to you got to start now all over
from scratch
and
there's a lot of political issues you
know
unfortunately over there
and so that's when my parents my dad you
know my mom were like we want to get out
of this country we want to go somewhere
we have better opportunity
to come to america we you know don't
speak the language
don't know the culture don't know the
people don't know how life is i mean
india is a very different world it's a
beautiful place but it's very different
than here
and you start over
wow as a minority as a minority just for
the opportunity because that's all you
know you
there's risk but you see the opportunity
there and do you think looking back now
do you think that because it i often
think that what we refer to as being an
ethnic problem is actually just
there is an element of
what i call school of fish like you're
just you're going to group up with
people that look like you it's just so
embedded in the the subconscious
but
i think a bigger thing is just it's
either majority or minority right
because globally the indian um ethnicity
is massive billions yeah but when you
come to the us now you're a minority do
you think that the trade-off of going
from being
the majority ethnicity i mean everybody
in india basically is shares the
ethnicity i know there's religious
differences but then coming here and
being a minority does the opportunity
that america provide
outweigh whatever detriment there is to
being a minority
you know again if you're willing to work
you have to be willing to work and kind
of just break out of whatever
anytime you see a majority kind of just
group think you have to be willing to
question that but you know the
opportunity you have here in america
is it more difficult now than before
absolutely is it more difficult for some
people than others absolutely however
it's the best opportunity you have in
the world
and you know that's why literally even
till today you have people that are
willing to risk their lives
to come to this country and i mean
actually risk their lives and so you
know you have that aspect and i can
speak for me where
six the religion that i am they are a
minority in india and you know there's a
lot of issues that come with being a
minority anywhere but again
where do you know here you have more
opportunity than anywhere else and so
the way i look at you know for me
personally so my parents came to this
country with next to nothing so i got
nothing to lose and everything to gain
right and so
this is the place where that opportunity
exists but now you have to be willing to
work hard
but you also have to be willing to work
smart i i can't stand when people say
work smart don't work hard but to me
that's all completely because you have
to do both you have to do both because
if you're not willing to work hard your
smart working is effectively worthless
you have to be willing to apply both
together and i had none of this you know
financial education right for me was
dad i want to go invest in real estate
you're stupid go become a doctor you
know it's it's
i had to do all my entrepreneurial stuff
in secret the first my parents didn't
even know that i was doing this business
stuff until i was on the news i was
running a different sock company and
this is now you know couple years after
and
we were doing well and we got featured
on the local news now my parents got a
call from a family friend and they said
oh we saw your son on the news and my
parents were like oh god what did he do
now and they're like no no
he has this company he's doing really
well they're they're growing my dad was
like what and so now you know he sits me
down he's like what the heck is going on
and that was the first time they were
like okay you can actually do something
with this right and it was like
you have to for me it was like i
understood what i wanted i knew that i
saw this i really
i wanted to achieve success and i knew i
was doing it for good intentions
i knew i didn't have like bad intentions
with what i wanted to do
but the question was you know how do i
get there because it was like i if i
know if i try to convince my parents it
is like it's going to be extremely
stressful for me i'm going to stress
them out it's just not going to work so
i'm just going to try to figure it out
myself and i'll fail well i said i'm in
school so i kind of had that back up but
for me like i like i went to law school
as well
the problem was
i
wasn't the best student in school um in
law school particularly i did well in
the bar exam i loved learning and so for
me like you know i knew i needed to pass
the bar and so i studied hard i actually
did really well but in the classes
i was not very good except for the
couple of the business ones because i
really enjoyed that
but for me it was just like i just need
to get the degree that way i can like be
done with this because i went to law
school because my parents found out that
i wasn't gonna be a doctor they're like
you gotta at least become an attorney to
keep pride in the family
and so i was like all right well if i go
to law school i can go to law school
part-time and if i go to law school
part-time i can work on me my business
full time so that was my mindset with it
and
you know but i knew that yeah if i
graduate law school and things don't
work out i don't even know
how i'm going to work as an attorney
because i have no idea i don't know how
to file a lawsuit i have no idea like
what to do so if i graduate like i'm
gonna have to like start all over and
figure it out after i'm done and it used
to give me a lot of anxiety but i was
like you know this is why i have to
figure it out it was a mission because
one i wanted to do
to give back
to my family and myself and second i
wanted to do it because i wanted to
prove a lot of people wrong and i
remember when i used to talk about this
everyone's like oh you shouldn't do it
out of spite don't do things because you
want to prove someone wrong i was like
you don't understand you don't get some
of the you know the the things that you
hear the things that you see
and sure you know
maybe it can't drive you forever but it
can take you i mean that pain
of seeing the the things that people say
to because you know
in between i started a sock company
and when i was doing the sock business
this is when you know people started to
be aware that i was an entrepreneur and
i wasn't like super successful i was
doing okay uh
and that's when i got on the news but
you know just think about this i was
supposed to be a doctor now here i am
selling socks on the internet and
everybody is like oh so you left you
know this idea of becoming a
doctor now you're just selling socks and
you know hearing that for years it's
like
one day i'm going to have your kid want
to work for me that was like in the
background i never said that but i was
in the back of my mind your kid's going
to want to work for me one day and uh
it's like that driving force where i
knew i'm going to prove this person
wrong i'm gonna make this person like
really like see that hey i i am worthy i
can do something but it takes a lot of
work you know going back to that
but
it's it's it's be with anything being
willing to try being willing to take
risks being willing to make mistakes and
being willing to learn from it because
you know like i said you know for me i
was willing to be dumb or stupid i never
saw that risk until more recently
because for me it was just like i know
this is what i want
and so the risk really was never even on
my horizon if i had a business idea i
would start it like that same night
because for me it was like i just got to
i want to do this i want to figure it
out
books weren't they were kind of giving
me an idea my teachers were teaching me
this i don't know who to turn to
my experience was my teacher that's how
i learned how to be in entrepreneurs how
to learn to start investing that's when
i started learning about money because
you know
the whole issue with the money stuff i
mean this is something that we're never
ever even remotely talk taught about and
it's
now becoming a real pressing issue
you have to be willing to try learn risk
failure you are going to fail i always
try to get people to understand that
failure is the most information rich
data stream that exists it sucks it
hurts it can be costly but
one in triggering the parts of the brain
that have to do with pain you trigger
the parts of the brain that have to do
with memory and focus so you're more
likely to really look at that thing that
you don't want to happen again to figure
out why that happened right memorize it
and then you're gonna get better the
next time and to your point about um
having a chip on your shoulder and
people telling you that you can't do
something and thinking one day you know
your kid's gonna ask to work for me
it
probably is a primary driver over an
extended period of time like you said
it'd be a little caustic to the soul
but it's so powerful in terms of so
you've got light energy and dark energy
right just to be like all star wars
about it
and if
what i have found in my own life is that
the hardest times
the light energy will only get me so far
and then i'll hit a brick wall and i'll
want to stop and it's only when i tap
into the dark energy of like i will not
let this person be right about me i am
not going to back down because i know
they're just waiting for me to fail yeah
that it actually does give me another
boost now i try to split it call it 80
20 where i'm spending 80 percent of my
time in the light the beautiful things i
want to do the people i want to help
yeah but dude let me tell you twenty
percent of the time i'm thinking that
the person that really wants to tap down
some migration
right yeah a hundred percent and and you
know i i found the same way because for
me in the beginning it was just figuring
it out i went from business idea to
business idea the business idea because
for me i was just trying to figure it
out hop it from one idea to the next but
then you know you talk about the light
energy for me it was my really driving
my passion and my mission and my purpose
and that became more of the light energy
because now
you know after a certain point you're
like
the money doesn't drive you it it just
is what it is right it's just like i'm
fine like i i'm not a very materialistic
person i don't really care you know
about brand names designer names first
time i made a million dollars i was
driving a 500 car right it just doesn't
matter
like sure it provides some sort of
benefit more comfort more value but
after a certain point that money is not
a driver it's now what is my purpose
and
for me you know that minority mindset
where origin started making videos i
wasn't doing it to make money i did this
as a hobby because i got scammed in that
sock company what is up my friend tom
bill you here and i have a big question
to ask you how would you rate your level
of personal discipline on a scale of one
to ten if your answer is anything less
than a ten i've got something cool for
you and let me tell you right now
discipline by its very nature means
compelling yourself to do difficult
things that are stressful boring which
is what kills most people or possibly
scary or even painful now here is the
thing achieving huge goals and
stretching to reach your potential
requires you to do those challenging
stressful things and to stick with them
even when it gets boring and it will get
boring building your levels of personal
discipline is not easy but let me tell
you it pays off in fact i will tell you
you're never going to achieve anything
meaningful unless you develop discipline
right i've just released a class from
impact theory university called how to
build ironclad discipline that teaches
you the process of building yourself up
in this area so that you can push
yourself to do the hard things that
greatness is going to require of you
right click the link on the screen
register for this class right now and
let's get to work i will see you inside
this workshop from impact theory
university until then my friends be
legendary peace out
i'm just talking about things that you
know i wish somebody would have told me
when i was younger like having to do
with business having to do with money
so i did it as a hobby and people will
say you can't just do that as a hobby
i'm like dude you don't understand i
didn't invest any money into it i was
making videos off my phone i bought like
a 30 or maybe 35 tripod off of amazon
and i was just making videos for fun and
like
my friend asked me and i think i was
around 10 000 subscribers and he asked
me like how much money are you making
off of youtube
what do you mean say how much money are
you making from your ad revenue off of
youtube
i don't know what do you mean
he goes into my youtube back end with me
and this is before youtube had
requirements of like you got to have x
number of videos x number of subscribers
every time you anybody could monetize
any video hey dude you haven't even
turned monetization on click one click
and now you can start making money off
your videos i was like oh i didn't know
that i really enjoyed it for me this was
like really fun and something that i
loved doing which is why i did it
and
then minority minds started to grow
started to make some money
and i was like oh i can actually like do
this like i can work on just spreading
this this purpose what is it about what
you guys publish that people respond to
it's one email right it's a newsletter
and you know it's coming what time is
coming you know where it's going to be
every day and so people want to open it
we don't need to have a the world is
ending you know where it is and then we
just break down what's happening this is
where i really fell in love with the
book is the concept of necessity yeah
because this is something i talk to
people about um and
specifically in the context of obsession
versus passion yeah and you really went
into it not because i you're probably
going to get some flack and push back on
that one yeah but what you said i was
like that is the absolute truth yeah
yeah so explain people what's the
difference between the two
what is the role of obsession well we
found it so in high performance habits
what we did like you mentioned that we
do the world's largest study of high
performers data from over 190 countries
um from what essentially turns out to be
like people who are in that top 15 of
whatever they do
and we found that there was basically
personal habits and social habits and
the personal habits was you know like
seek clarity generate energy and that
third one was raised necessity which was
something
i didn't even know really
was a thing psychologically um as
important as it turned out to be and
necessity is kind of short for
performance necessity
um or what we call psychological
necessity which means
there is a moment in which you are
serving people or you're trying to
achieve your goal or your dream in which
now it is not a preference
it's a must
right but to use better languaging it's
it becomes necessary for us to excel in
this like it's not a hope anymore it's
not i i it should do it
it becomes so necessary that
it connects with our identity
that we feel it is necessary for me to
deliver with excellence here because
that is who i am
it's necessary for me to deliver with
excellence here because
somebody needs me
to do well it's necessary for me to do
well here because this topic this thing
i'm doing i'm passionate about this i
care about this i want to master this
i'm obsessed
with this and it's necessary for me to
do well because the time it's it's a
deadline or it's go time or and when all
those come together
that show that personal side of this is
my identity and obsessed about it and
that other side where it's like somebody
needs me and there is a real deadline
right in the middle
that's performance necessity
and we when we hit that
the game changer
game changer but it is uncomfortable
because people don't want to
exude that much passion in which it
becomes obsession because they're
fearful of their obsessions well if i'm
obsessed about this topic it's going to
take way away from my family
from my time
it's going to introduce a lot of you
know fear or unknowns to me so they back
off but i tell people all the time
there is a difference between passion
and obsession
and high performers have obsession about
the topic right they are obsessed about
the topic in which they're trying to
learn master grow into
and so that obsession is real i tell
people the difference here's how you
know the difference between the two when
you're passionate everybody cheers you
on
they're stoked for you oh you found your
passion awesome follow your passion live
with passion be passionate chase your
passions everything like passion passion
passion passion passion is good like the
words will be like yay
right
when you're obsessed they're like
why are you gonna be so crazy
why can't you be satisfied
why do you always gotta get things so
perfect why you spend so much time here
when you're obsessed people think you're
nuts
so it's different
and it's like i always tell people if no
one thinks you're crazy
you're not yet operating to the outer
limits of your potential
you're not there yet
because somebody in your life should say
man you really care about this in like a
crazy way and when you get there you
know you found your thing and not every
find nobody finds that i think that's
also why it's scary some people go
well i'm passionate or i'm happy but i
don't really obsess about anything you
know most people obsess about you know
their shows on netflix more than their
life i know people who obsess more about
their their you know thread count in
their sheets at their house
than they do about the impact they're
making in the world why do you think
people can slip into an obsession over
netflix or whatever or thread count but
they don't do that for something that
could really change their life feedback
that's interesting it's not what i
expected you to say what do you mean by
that because
you know
buying something or getting pulled into
netflix being obsessed about something
that gives you no feedback is not scary
a real obsession like trying to make an
impact in the world you're getting
feedback
you're trying to make a difference in
somebody's life they're going to tell
you that doesn't resonate with me
brendan you try to make a difference in
a non-profit you try to change the world
you try to start something like this
and the views come or they don't come
there's feedback and people are
terrified it's one of the four central
fears we all have is rejection
we're terrified like to be rejected and
think about if you really want to make
an impact
you're going to get a lot of judgment
you're going to get a lot of hate and
ultimately going to get rejection people
are going to like just dis on you people
are going to say that's not good enough
you're going to say who do you think you
are
and people are so worried
about that
that they stop
and so it's easier things that don't
give you feedback watch netflix don't
give you no feedback
it's easy there's no disappointment
there even if you don't like the show
what do you do you just go to the next
show there's no there's no
disappointment there you know i think
trying to make an impact there's a lot
of disappointment and fear and potential
for rejection so people don't get
obsessed about making a difference and
making an impact because it can hurt
go deep on identity so you've talked
about how one of the scariest things
about an obsession
is the way that you tie it to your
identity high performers do that they
put themselves at risk they say like
your own story i'm i am a writer and the
day that you decided you were going to
own that you said that that comes with a
risk one explain to people what that
risk is yeah and then how did you
overcome it and how can other people do
that yeah well imagine like last night
i'm going on the stage right if i if my
identity says i am a public speaker
and it is important for me to be
excellent at this
and then i go on stage and i bomb
what does that say about me as a person
so we've got about 50 years of work in
psychology in the field of psychology
saying do not tie your efforts to your
identity because that risk of
disappointment or rejection you know if
the task fails
you shouldn't take that as as a defining
moment in which you say i am a failure
right so that's the risk and that's what
you know psychologists tell us to be
wary of except it turns out that high
performers flipped out on its face and
go well actually um
no i do get bothered
if it fails i really get upset about it
i am attached to
the process here i i do care if it turns
out well i mean that's why they obsess
about the details that's why they care
about excellence it's like no one
obsesses about the details or cares
about excellence unless it means
something to them
and there is a risk the risk is
you over attach
to
the process of the outcome
with your identity so that if the
process or outcome goes bad now you feel
bad about yourself as a human
and now you stop your progress
but i also tell people
there's a balance there
i actually wish more people would attach
some identity
to what they're doing they wouldn't go
through the motions as much i mean
i think what the world needs
less of is half interested parents
who don't have an identity that says you
know what
i'm going to be an excellent parent
i think we have a lot of ceos or
business people or entrepreneurs who
they've never stepped in and said you
know what
i'm a
ceo i own this business i am responsible
for paying the bills i am responsible
for making the money i'm responsible for
all these people's mortgages who work
for me
like they i want them to own the
identity of a ceo because most of them
if you ask them about their identity and
their business they're kind of like you
come to find
they're kind of approaching it like
not even hobbyists
it's like if you want to win
your identity has to be tied into that
thing in which you are trying to succeed
at and give to and that takes a lot of
guts to put yourself all in for
something but who's ever contributed
something with tremendous impact without
being all into it i've never seen it so
i think the message of the book you're
right i'll get some flack of some a lot
of psychologists say don't don't tell
people to tie more of their identity or
my friends who are buddhists will say
but attachment is the form of all
suffering brandon have you not read your
spiritual attacks i'm like look out calm
down i've hung out with the dalai lama
i'm totally cool
but what i'm trying to tell you is even
the dalai lama
has a connection with himself as a
spiritual leader his identity is still
there that people
you know assume that you know we have to
release ourselves from having any
attachment to something but i'm like i
think
we all want to be present
and engaged fully
in the things that we are doing in our
lives
and that's going to require us to say
psychologically you know what i
i
am all in this
that's what i'm about
what i loved in the book is you're
you were open on the journey of writing
it took me about three years if i'm not
mistaken so doing all the research
you've collected the however many
millions of people that are in your
ecosystem and then you start
systematically actually researching the
data and you can feel that in the book
that you were open to being surprised
you were open to changing your thinking
you talk about going through and trying
to find disconfirming evidence and not
just wanting to be in a vacuum and and
some of the surprises in the book were
really really great and in that whole
concept of obsession i loved it because
it felt so real you tell your followers
one you have to take ownership right so
you gave a great example about you're in
a relationship with somebody
whatever energy you guys are creating
you're creating that like don't think
that it's just objectively them like you
guys are doing it together
and i love that love that in the talk
about how obsession can be useful
because so i'm like that's really
important to me and i want people to
understand if you want to achieve at the
highest level you're going to have to
tap into an obsession period yeah and
you put a quote in the book that i think
sums it up perfectly
which goes like this and by the way the
the quotes people choose for books
reveal so much and i just kept taking
one after another
out of your book this is from einstein
only one who devotes himself to a cause
with his whole strength and soul can be
a true master for this reason mastery
demands all of a person yeah i love that
all in
you you have to be all in and it's the
hardest thing to do because if it fails
then you can feel like a failure um you
know
i think of this idea of performance
necessity um two stories kind of come to
mind one is i was working with an
olympic gold medalist sprinter and we're
in the tunnel and we're going out and
he's talking about the competition and
we get out to the blocks and i said
uh he was really worried about the
competition i said well how do you
engage like who who who's going to win
you know in
in his particular race people are
winning but by you know 1 100th of a
second tenths of a second i mean these
are really close sprints and i said well
how how do you know i said who would you
even bet on
and he says
you know i would
bet on the guy
who gets down at the blocks
gets himself settled looks at the finish
line and says
i gotta do this
for my mom
and i was like oh
that's good his performance necessity in
that is
it's necessary for him to win that race
for his mom
um i think of
you know when i started
my career and i really decided to go all
in
with writing and online training um this
is like 2000 probably six
uh i'd gone broke completely bankrupt
and failed i left my corporate job i had
this cushy kind of corporate job as a
consultant good job
left it to write
and i didn't know how to make it as a
writer i want to do seminars workshops
didn't know how to do that so i was
pretty much a hot mess ran out of money
um i got nothing to my name
nothing kind of no positive prospects no
one's calling me except the guys who
want the money
and um
one night i'm riding and the apartment
was so small on the bed i had uh
all you know my bills my vision boards
all my research
all my journals like the bed was
basically the desk the extended desk
and my lady comes in denise
and
she walks past me but she sees i'm like
trying to write so it doesn't want to
disturb me she goes she crawls under um
the covers of the bed
and i'm just typing kind of casually
typing away
and i look over
and
i see my woman
sleeping under my bills
and it was just like
you know because none of us want to see
our you know
our family suffer because we are
not performing sure
and um
i was just like
i gotta figure this out
and i'm telling you i wrote more that
night than any night in my entire life
next day i wrote more than ever that
burst life scold ticket became a
bestseller and in you know 18 months
later because i was like i'm going to
figure out this online thing i'm going
throughout marketing i'm going to figure
out how to teach i'm going to how to
train and get paid for it because i've
never really been paid for those things
i said i'm going to figure out this
industry and i'm going to make it 18
months later after her
crawling under the bills i made 4.6
million dollars jesus online
total transformation people like how did
you do it i'm like she gave me she was
my necessity i was not going to let my
woman
be in that situation um
and she believed in me she supported me
she she married me
and uh you know but that was she was my
drive
and the second part was i went all in
with my identity i said i am going to be
a great writer
and i am going to be one of the greatest
online trainers there ever was
you know as you said in the intro now
we've graduated over two million people
have taken our online courses video
series now
i don't think it would have happened if
i hadn't
had the guts
and maybe
the no other choice
to say this is who i'm going to be
and i'm going to build into that
and it's necessary for me to become that
person
so let's go and this is what i figured
out through my journey that i was always
great at providing a void and i'd fill
it but the void that i created usually
was promises that i made and i worked
really hard to do it instead of work
really hard up front to provide value
create that void and then what i got
really good at was getting rid of the
ego guilt
and i learned to ask big
right i learned to ask like
attract someone like tom in my life so
that i could sit and reach millions of
people with him and inspire them to help
other people and learn that when you
give the universe doesn't know size so
it knows i believe that it's just as
good for somebody to put a cart back at
the grocery store or pick up trash and
throw it away or provide a healthy food
to somebody that it is to give a million
dollars the universe it's not these are
human things this is a lower and so
you might as well do as many good deeds
as you can open as many doors smile as
many people hug as many people as you
can and then when you create your void
of giving and service ass big
that's in this human vibration this
pragmatic world ass big ask for it all
because it will come to you and that's i
think something i did subconsciously
when i was 25 right out of law school
and it's something i do consciously
subconsciously and unconsciously now i
asked to empower 75 000 people
i want to change the world to make
people happy and who are you asking that
of the universe so whatever you believe
in and whatever you believe and i don't
care if it's god jesus mohammed joseph
smith the 12th man if you're a seahawks
fan i don't care but ask ask the
universe ask who you think
put it out there you know there's three
ways you got what you think say and do
that's one way to put it out there
subconsciously there are no pathways in
your mind 40 000 of the same thoughts
put it out there and then finally your
energy your dna your fingerprint on life
that's what truly puts it out there and
that system of conscious to subconscious
to unconscious is what allows you to
truly attract rapidly and accurately
what you want
so interesting because i'm guessing if
we flashback let's call it 20 years and
i asked the same question i get an
equally valid answer because it worked
right like both words
you would have got work hard
don't quit
you know
all of those things and look be a i was
an honest person
i just had my values a little bit
screwed up as they got bigger and bigger
but i was you know working really hard i
just felt like i was in control of
everything and now i've completely
surrendered doesn't mean i don't work as
hard i was gonna say i watch your
content and there's definitely like um
you said i'm gonna ballpark it here but
like i don't go to bed i pass out and i
work until my energy runs out
and i thought yeah i get that and so
it's so interesting to see
yeah not a conflict at all actually it's
just it's such an interesting way to
come at it so you've got the on the one
hand it's the more traditional hard
driving
um you know i'm gonna make this happen
if i'm creating a void it's a void of
what i'm looking for people to you know
pour into hey i've given you something
i'm expecting something back
and
many and many and many a person have
built insanely amazing careers doing
that right so i know that it works um
but then over here now you've done both
and it's like this totally different way
but yet you still really pour yourself
into what you do providing value yeah
it's super interesting so like i was
watching one of your pieces of content
you went to this um event and it was
during spring break and so there was
only you know i don't know a handful 30
kids there or something and you said oh
these are the ones that'll make it why
are they the ones that'll make it
you know i believe in being more
interested than interesting and that
providing value they define that for
people i know what you mean but like you
really put a point on it
you know for me
we
it's almost connected to the zero effect
of life and i think
there's a consistency that makes people
successful and what happens is we lie to
ourselves and i'll use health because
you're an expert at it but i see this in
nutrition and in exercise people will
tell me after one month gosh why did i
get incremental results or no results at
all i said because you zeroed yourself
out the kids that showed up
during spring break to the event that i
had
that the ones that were there and they
had a lot of other distractions they're
the ones that don't zero out they're the
ones that get the exponential
um power of the universe meaning if i do
something every day
day one i get x to the first day two to
the second third third fourth fifth most
people when it comes to nutrition
they're always day six uh
they zero themselves out
then they start over for a second and
during a month they may zero themselves
out three or four times at the end of
the month they didn't get the
exponential results
if you stick to something every day this
idea of being more interested
really asking the extra questions going
the extra mile which is completely empty
in my opinion if you want no competition
in your life go the extra mile
99.9 of the people are zeroing
themselves out they're doing 28 days a
month not 31. how do you help them with
that because i'm a psycho for this the
level of clarity that you have to have
yeah you know i
start very pragmatically i have certain
things that i think can change someone's
life number one student of your calendar
it might sound silly but i believe focus
there's a whole field of intention and
that the pragmatic way that we figure
out what we're doing in a day because i
look for productivity and accessibility
i study my calendar on the way here i
was studying my things your awareness
rises when you're looking at something
and start thinking all right i'm going
to be with tom what what should i ask
tom this is all being more interested in
and it goes from there and then another
quick philosophy is do it now
i whenever i'm doing anything i have a
simple question can i do it now because
if i can do something now number one i
save myself a minimum of half the time
it'll take me twice as much time to do
something if i don't do it now and two
exponentially becomes less successful if
you don't do something now you can
forget it you have to go back i mean it
just turns into a mess so about 85 to 88
of the things that i'm approached with i
can do now hey you got a referral yeah
hold on sometimes it's a little weird
and quirky during the meeting but i do
it anyway
someone asked me i literally make the
induct introduction i cut our
conversation hey you need to know this
guy you and so these little tips
of time and then the other side so i
give time tips because i believe time's
a construct everybody has 24 hours a day
it's how productive and accessible can
you
be in 24 hours and then the other
construct is ego so the two ways i help
them is i teach them gratitude empathy
accountability and effective
communication to help them get out of
their own way because that ego and time
will be two things that will reduce all
the resistance in their lives and allow
them to attract what they want and if
you understand ego and you understand
time you can have faith to be of service
so help me understand ego how does it
stop most people
ego is that voice
that little voice inside of you that i
use cancel clear connect for that it's
all these needs you know guilt is a big
one
fear is a huge one anxiety so when i can
teach young people to identify when
they're thinking with their ego
when they're in their own way there's
only one thing that stands between you
and what you want and when i say what
you want
let me be very clear i believe that all
people want is to be happy and in order
to make them happy they if they get what
they want
health
you know money a ferrari now it won't
maintain the happiness if you get what
you want but the key is if you can
rapidly get everything that you want
learn from it keep what keeps you happy
dump what doesn't
and then keep moving on you're going to
live a happy existence a fulfilled
existence so the ego is the only thing
that stands between you and what you
want and when we can identify it which
is the first step we can start working
through
why do we feel this way that's one of
the biggest questions that i ask i still
get scared
you know i still fight certain things i
i don't know what percentage of the time
anymore but i just try to get better i
tried to pursue my potential of living
at the highest vibration of the truth
without my ego
you know
still i mean i
every time i talk to my mom i fight my
ego because it's such an emotional
relationship i fight my ego of all
different things that probably carried
from the time i was in the womb but
energetically the more i work through it
and the better i feel
the more i'm able to manifest not only
for myself but for others and so
i've heard what you've said about your
mom that she has a third degree black
belt and jewish guilt
so knowing that what does it mean to
work through it is it finding your
center is it just having the compassion
for her understanding that she only
wants good things for you and this is
just her best attempt
what because i know there are so many
people watching this that they have the
same relationship so
what do they do mechanistically what do
they do to work through it so what i
started doing is i realized that there's
only two things my mom really wanted
from me
one was to know that i loved her and two
appreciated her for that that's my
mother and i and i got that by asking
her questions and so what i decided to
do to change our relationship was to
make sure every day so i have this
philosophy of doing stuff every day give
it a minimum amount of minutes so i gave
my mom a minimum of one minute a day to
make sure that she loves and appreciates
me and meaning i would call text or
email her and simply sometimes say hey
mom i was just thinking about you i got
back from china today and i just wanted
you to know that i totally love you and
appreciate you i live this extraordinary
life
and i i'm so grateful you know i'm one
of six and all the things
then i work through it and say to myself
why do i still feel this way why why do
i feel inferior to my siblings just
because they all went to the ivy leagues
and none of them got a b
why i'm 50 years old
i have my own beautiful family why do i
have this energy about me that i
literally know it's not easy for people
to to say the truth that i know enough
here's the best thing about it my
brothers are super
they're super accelerated like humans
they're amazing right harvard suma
laude
amazing and what's funny is we my
brother went to harvard he was extremely
enlightened he's a rabbi now
you know i said to him hey man i just
i'm working on feeling good around you
and he was like pale he goes that's
funny because i was thinking the same
thing about you
you know like that in fear and i go and
i hope you take it as a compliment
because i just think the world of you
and i want you to think the world to me
those type of effective communications
can open up
and allow you to work through
why you feel certain ways because it
transcends if you fill that with your
siblings or your parents
it's worse for people you just met
you're trying to prove yourself one of
the energies i carry that ruined me was
i had an energy that i was stupid
and i projected it that i was smarter
than everyone else because i carried a
core energy because of my siblings and
the way i was raised and my grandma
telling me only stupid people get bored
smart people think of things to do that
i literally projected this insecurity
that caused me to oversell back and sell
lie
manipulate
and not feel good about myself no matter
how much i had i still needed more
and it was for myself to prove that i
was smart enough
that's so incredible
how did you
get to the point where you could take
accountability for all of that like that
is i love your thoughts on
accountability by the way
extraordinary um
but what i find is the people that
can take accountability often have to
really overcome something like that
thing they really don't want to talk
about and they still have to take
accountability for that
how did you face that
it was
taking accountability for going bankrupt
because to me everything in my life was
about being rich it was about having
that money my whole identity was that
success and so to
let go of that identity and to be
radically humble
and confident and faithful and just say
i am accountable i mean it was a bad
time that i went bankrupt it was 2007
2008 everybody was losing money people
were blaming me and there's lawsuits and
in my ego was in the way
and the minute i said you know
hey you know what i could have done this
i attracted this yes my wonderful wife
is correct i surrounded myself with the
wrong people and the wrong ideas i'm
accountable 100
and i'm going to tell everybody about it
i'm not going to hide you know what take
the enter there's a great author david
corbin he wrote a book called illuminate
and i read that book and he became a
friend of mine because i had to search
him out after i read it and he used an
example about illumination he said i was
doing business and there was guy that
was convicted of a white-collar crime
felony
and first thing of every business call
that he said he said look before we get
started i want to let you know i was
convicted in 2001 of a white-collar
crime for doing this
i served six months in jail i'm
completely accountable for it but i
learned what i learned and i just want
to tell you up front before we do any
business that this is me and if you're
not comfortable doing business with a
felon
i get it
and 90 some percent of the people
trusted that person more
than somebody else
and then two
it you know a hundred percent of the
people especially because of technology
and access to information today
eventually you're going to find out
right and you lose 100 of the people
when they find out after and you know
for me that was a friend of mine said i
love this statement david
i would rather people hate me for who i
am than love me for who i'm not i'm the
exact opposite of you
i love that when he told me that and
that was part i wanted everyone to love
me
and you can't
yeah that's um easier said than done
that's really really interesting and the
doing the work of identifying it like
you were talking about whether it's ego
or what it is but just recognizing that
it's there and then being able to
process through that find your center
and then move forward with intention
it's really really interesting
and as i think through that and i think
through the steps and how meticulous you
have to be
why are you such a good negotiator
what what is it that you do is there a
process like that like what is it really
i think it's part of being more
interested than interesting so what i do
is i explore the reasons that you want
what you want i want to explore the
impact that it has and the capabilities
that you currently have
that you want to have and that you
actually need
and then i align those with the reasons
that i want to do the deal the impact
that it has for me and the capabilities
that i
have want or need and when i figure that
all out in negotiation i actually can
make a bigger hole than other people i'm
dealing hey i could give you this you
could give me that and we both really
win
from things that i've heard you say
almost just off the cuff the thing that
seems like your superpower from the
outside is that you go into everything
with an open mind not knowing what the
answer might be and looking for ways
that
are completely outside the realm of even
what i would think to ask for
and
is part of what
is anybody's power in the negotiation
being able to make the ask
yeah so there's three things one people
buy on emotion for logical reasons
so you have to address the emotions
and so that's that open nature that you
feel and see and from knowing me now
the other two is not only an ask it's an
attract
so i believe there's four mediums that
you can ask and attract on the first in
person so being more interested than
interesting we were going to meet in
person today
i know that i strategically for the
benefit of both of us have asked and
attracts
right one of those simple ass was you
know i really wanted you to sign
something to put into my studio right
because everyone i do that's just a
simple one but i'm thinking about that
so in person asking the track then on
the phone every phone call i receive not
push out right i'm on the defensive in
my life i'm attracting right i'm
allowing things so i know that i'm going
to receive phone calls today i'm going
to have asks in the tracks
and be and i know that because
unconditionally i ask people is there
anything i can do for you how can i be
of service and they'll either tell me or
not and invariably they're almost forced
to by the laws of nature to ask me what
i want i have an ask and attract
talk to me about meditation how are you
leveraging that in your life
meditation for me is 20 minutes every
morning
first thing that i do
and what it does is it finds my center
that's all that's all for me it's almost
like baseline testing for a concussion
because what i've learned is that life
is life is like the big tall hill in san
francisco with a car on top
that's your center when the car is up
there you can hold it a you know a truck
you can hold with your finger when it's
sitting on top of a hill
the minute this thing starts rolling
downhill you got to put it back up the
longer it goes downhill the harder it is
to get back up what i used to do during
the day is i'd let that truck keep
flying down the hill and
trying to react instead of
act by going back to center and is this
emotional that's how i think of it i
think of it as anxiety stress emotion
those are the things i'm trying to bring
back to center correct so anything that
takes you off of peace
oneness wholeness that feel peaceful
feeling if something moves me in that
direction instead of reacting
talking yelling all the different things
that throwing things whatever you are
go back to center so you had this really
cool story about hey my daughter at the
time i think she was 16. if she said dad
i want a ferrari you'd be like cool how
do we go about getting it correct and i
found that really interesting because
it's so pragmatic but what i want to do
now is is really collide the two things
because i think you're uniquely capable
like you live in the real world you've
built real businesses and been very
successful and there's so much
tangibility to what you do like and
maybe this will be a breakthrough for me
i want to know like how those two
co-exist how do you manifest which i
imagine just means essentially daydream
right and then how do i
reconcile then i have to go do something
for it that's the biggest conflict that
i had too people told me about
manifesting i'd roll my eyes because i
didn't understand it
manifesting is commanding which means
working with the word work is in there
you got to take action you got to make
it happen you can't sit at home high on
your mom's couch
manifesting the publisher's clearing
house to come to to your door
you know it would drive me crazy you
know this is a secret i'm on to
transformational leadership council i'm
like the most pragmatic sports agent
weirdo on there but those are all the
people that created the movie the secret
and i told them drove me crazy when the
guys you're teaching the masses sit
there and dream about your ferrari and
this was during my transformational time
and i sat there it's put a pit in my
stomach i'm like do you know how hard i
had to work to buy my ferrari
like it was a dream of mine
but
i wasn't home high on my mom's couch
dreaming about having that thing i was
out working and doing all the things
that i needed
that combination to me the commanding
the commanding of the universe working
with it and that includes working with
others so
i only even in my business
ask me you want to go to do something
you want to come to the studio today and
and get involved and meet you because
there's you know i saw the posse that
came that's because they asked us okay
how are we going to do it
what value are you going to bring to the
table
oh i can drive i can do this
the same works with the universe you
know i want to raise a hundred million
dollars to give to people
and i hear the universe tell me okay how
are we gonna do it now it takes action
takes alignment action adjustment but it
does it takes that i have to create a
plan i'm not just going to dream about
it but i believe that it's very
important to still think about it focus
in on it dream about it that all these
things the conscious subconscious and
unconscious all work together but
without conscious action
it probably won't take place
talk to me about planning how do you
come up with a plan how have you like
this is the thing when i really
sit down and try to break down from
people what you need to do to be
successful there's certain places i stop
because there's nothing universal to
give them
and the plan is one of them right so i'm
i'm just
ridiculously psycho about people need a
goal a hyper-specific goal and a plan so
my thing is identify the gap between
where you are and where you want to be
and that gap is a gap of skill set and
now you have to go and get those skills
but most people can't identify what
skills actually lie between where they
are and where they want to go they get
it like from the end result but they
don't know how to plan that out yeah and
i'm not like i don't even understand
other than just sort of by intuition how
i'm doing it so here's what's cool
because this is going to throw you way
back because it's completely pragmatic
monetary solution to the problem
that i tell
young people with what they want that
they need it to figure out one a direct
path
to that they that that's your goal
what's my direct path to revenue
forget the business side what if if you
have an idea for a business specifically
what's my direct path to revenue
and when you stay focused on the direct
path of revenue you only need one more
thing to stay in business every day
and so if you have one objective to stay
in business
and then two a direct path to revenue
and understand that my job is to align
with as much as i can being more
interested than interesting learning
these skills knowledge and maintaining
desire
you're guaranteed success let me give
you one of the coolest things that i've
learned and this is about anything in
life if somebody could tell you
give me your dream and your 25 nos from
your dream 25 failures losses from your
dream how excited would you be when you
got the first no
wait wait how about when you get your
25th one i'd be over the moon
but for me this is where faith comes in
i believe that i live in the favor like
in the favor of the universe i believe
that everything is mine everything
there's enough of everything for
everyone i just truly believe it and i
don't know if it's 25 but i know it's
the same philosophy so i take on the
energy and perspective of
good news
first failure i was wrong again good
news and then the 25th comes i'm like oh
gosh i know i'm closer than i was this
is great where like so many people
cannot maintain desire and they get to
the 25th time and they're this far away
you know the don't quit poem
i love that poem because that explains
this perfectly you're done
man you're gonna get there i don't know
how long
my favorite book i was blessed to do a
book with jack canfield chicken soup for
the soul half a billion he was rejected
200 times by publishers said it was a
stupid idea
200. but if i told him
that he would be rejected 200 times
before he had the best-selling book of
all times and a half a billion
sold in a whole brand that lasts for
legacy of a lifetimes of people how
happy would he have been when he got to
and so to me
to teach people
you need skills integration of skills
knowledge and desire maintenance of
desire you need a direct path to what
you want but you need to stay on course
every day
it's every single day the only thing
that stops you from being successful in
business for example is you run out of
money you go out of business
how many businesses do we know that have
evolved i'm sure
your business has evolved from where you
started sure right i know google did
facebook did
right they all were not set out to be
but they all had a direct path to what
they wanted to do and they stayed in
business every day
how do you maintain desire i've wanted
to ask that from the second you said
that that's super powerful it's the
literally to me it's the consistent
persistent enjoyment of the pursuit of
my potential when my outcomes i have
goals people are get all the time well
don't how can you do that like but i
change my goals that are a little
different they don't create voyage
shorts and obstacles meaning um
someone will tell me i want to be a
millionaire by the time i'm 30. i say
can i give you a piece of advice why not
double the amount of money you make as
fast as you can
you're not playing with linear time
anymore times a construct what if you
made it way before 30 you've cheated
yourself what you're creating resistance
so for me to stay inspired it's every
day enjoying the pursuit of my potential
and truly focusing in on man i love that
like my real enlightenment came when i
got my butt kicked and walked out of
there going wow that was awesome where
no ego right it's just like i just
learned so much i must be so much closer
to what i want because i just learned a
ton and i guess i got my butt kicked
and where the old dave would have been
like what
you know he doesn't know anything
no
i don't know anything right and i'm here
to learn more did you because you're
dyslexic right so i imagined that that
wasn't easy to establish a mental vision
of yourself that was positive so did you
ever worry that you weren't smart enough
to pull this off
all the time
okay and what what happened was
whether it was being young
and you know again just take failing
fourth grade i can look at two things
worst thing that ever happened to me
it's embarrassing i'm at the age where
everybody knows i'm a dummy or wow i got
whole new friends you know i've got this
whole new set of friends which ended up
happening to me which
in two weeks i'm going to have 45 of
them come out to my ranch this is from
eighth grade so i'm still friends with
these people right i have a child in 14
worst thing in the world
right oh my god my life is over or
wow i've got a beautiful young child you
know and it's about how you think did
you know to think of it like i didn't
think of it like that
in the beginning that's my point when
did that change it just as life went on
i realized what i thought was horrible
became wonderful
and why do i spend energy on things i
cannot control
i had to fail fourth grade why am i
going to be upset about it
again i think about this after the fact
and realize don't spend energy on things
you can't control so as my life got as i
moved along i started
wasting less energy on things like that
and then realizing find the silver
lining what good came out of this
issue you know and i've had a lot of
them right so okay so i can't change the
things that
i could probably cry over so what what
lesson did i learn you know and then and
now my life in the last 15 years 20
years
has been really focused on all the
the learnings you know and not the
woe is me stuff because we all got those
yeah that that's a pretty radical
transformation so i i really want to
make sure that people don't look at you
as the after picture and think this is
the before so obviously we've talked
about the hardships dyslexia is an
ongoing thing so how do you
how do you think about your weaknesses
and address because speaking for myself
so my big fear was that i wasn't smart
enough to be successful like that was at
some point in my life almost crippling
right and
so i really had for me i had to learn
about the brain i had to learn about
brain plasticity and that that gave me
the get out of jail free card of not
needing to tell myself that i was too
dumb anymore because it was like well
maybe you are too dumb right now and
that's fine because you can get better
did you
do you have a strategy for dealing with
something like dyslexia
i
think
you look at the whole
scarcity and abundance kind of concept
right
and
i
found that when i
would
instead of
focusing again on
the fact that maybe i'm not the best
reader maybe i don't retain a lot very
you know
a lot of things well
instead of that
the fact that if i find smart people and
it's very cliche but it's very true and
i surround myself with them
that i end up looking smarter
right because and and you watch some
people and i would it can give you so
many examples of people
but i won't okay that that are in fear
that if i surround myself with someone
smarter than me it'll make me look dumb
right
and and so they surround themselves with
people inferior and then your whole
company or division or whatever you're
in
fails right versus people that have
enough confidence to say wow you can
fill in the
you know the blind spot i don't
have or my weakness and you fill it all
in and your whole company rises or
whatever you're doing your whole project
rises because all of you
combined to make this uber
you know quick fast smart
project go right and so
that became pretty evident to me because
i didn't have a lot of the skills that
why don't i let those people do it you
know why don't i bring in more people
and the more talent i brought in the
quicker we went you know and the less
time we wasted and i went all right i
think i'm onto something here you know
and then to admit it hey i'm not the
smartest guy in the room you know i'm
the chairman of my company i hate
running the meetings i don't i don't
like being the one that has to tell
people what to do i'm not good at that i
have i like the the vision right i like
i got an idea let's march up this hill
that's fun to me but the details let's
let people that like to do that better
than i do do it it's interesting i would
put you into a certain um category of
entrepreneur if i didn't know what you
did on undercover billionaire because
there are people that have like a really
extraordinary ability to galvanize a
team to gather talent to surround
themselves and then it's basically like
all right hey i'm the one that sort of
raised the money and put everybody
together and now you guys go and
actually build this thing but
you have that
very striking ability but then you also
have the ability to
create a vision
to march forward to put very strategic
steps into place take us back to the
beginning of undercover billionaire
you're sleeping in your truck
you're not even sure what business to do
how did you begin to cobble those
ideas together so that you can actually
get something done so let me take you
back a step on that too for a second if
you don't mind so here i am doing my
business for a long time and become
fairly large
and successful and all the things i
thought were wonderful and then i get
hit with cancer
and at that point
my focus became a completely different
focus what's the most important thing
right and that's my family
so i said i'm going to sell my business
and i
sold it to a very large private equity
group and
i
focused on the family and by doing that
i was
then able to realize that
when i got back into business
the the problems weren't
very large in business no matter what
compared to cancer compared to
your life right so now it's just problem
solving right so let's get in the room
let's figure it out and then if you look
at it because i remembered 2007-8 which
was the worst financial crisis in our
lifetimes and i was dead center of it
and when i got cancer because i used to
say i never in my life when i go back to
that and when i got the cancer i went
what i would do to go back to that
because that was fun i just didn't i
wouldn't have caught it fun back then
very painful we're gonna lose everything
but it was all about getting in people's
faces let's figure this out together
going to new york and all the wall
street guys and all
every lawyer and everybody that was out
there but it was
living right it was it was doing things
so when then you take that and you and
you realize
we're not dying it's just problem
solving now all of a sudden the fear i
guess that business had on me for a
while why lose everything you know you
know and and i don't know if you've ever
had it you know you build something and
you're feeling great one day and the
next day you know these lawyers are
going to come and you know and and
there's always what can
us what can bring us down
well once that went away
and i started realizing that's just part
of the game then the fear of that went
away so now i can go out and create and
do things so when it came to undercover
billionaire
and i went out what had happened was
people kept asking if i wanted to do a
show my wife and i did a show 15 years
ago and by luck someone called if we
wanted to do it we did it it's called
the real gilligan's island
um i ended up winning it she came in
second place
long story but for years after that
people kept calling hey we want you to
do another show do you want to do a show
and i said look i'm a business guy you
know
i did that for fun but that's okay i'll
tell you a show i would do
stripped me from everything take away my
name my money my contacts i bet i could
rebuild it again because i was getting
tired of hearing
that
you know that the
american dream was dead and whatnot and
i also wanted to do it because i wanted
my children to see
that you
life is not easy
that when you do get into a hole it's
not about
laying there and
and feeling like the victim it's about
getting up and
pulling yourself up out of the hole and
figuring it out and so i wanted
that and i would say if you want to do a
show with me
strip me of everything and throw me in
the middle of nowhere and i would do
that over and over again to these
production houses that would call me and
then discovery called back and said if
you really want to do that show you put
your money or your mouth is i said sure
and they and they've put some
little constraints around well how about
90 days i'm going well that's kind of
tight you know i said well how about if
we start with like five thousand dollars
is it how about a hundred dollars
and it kept getting tighter and i said
okay let's see what happens you know
and um so off i went i did it i didn't
think much right which is the story of
my life where i didn't plan i just
thought i'll just show up and see what
happens and
and i like that you know i like having
my back against the wall and i like that
feeling and
we all i think we all do well at
being um
successful right we walk around we give
our money to charity and you know we we
do things that make us feel like we're
good who are we when everything is taken
away from us and in 2007 and eight when
everything was taken away in that moment
i was in the darkest hole
you know and looking around and thinking
the whole community and in the street is
looking at me who am i now i kind of
like that feeling why
because that's the real you
that's interesting it's it's when when
you are
not
built up
on the fakeness of
money and people kissing your ass and
all those things who are you as just a
human being
and so
that moment when i was at my darkest in
2007-8
literally it's a longer story than we
have right now but i
stood up and said let's let's go and
literally went in front of everybody's
face and never hid and said how are we
going to get ourselves out of this what
do you mean it's your problem glenn i go
no you say oh you're 30 million bear
stearns i said how are we going to get
out of this
because i don't believe i owe it to you
you know and and we would go over
battles over the loans let's say i gave
them stated income loans they said it's
my problem because they failed
how am i supposed to
check the income when you told me it was
a state you know so we would battle over
the stuff and little things like that
would happen and and instead of
digging my head in the sand it'll go
away
let's just fight it out right now and so
we did that on everything and then it
worked and so
when it came to
now we move forward and it's undercover
billionaire
i said i want to be stripped of
everything
and i want to be in a hole again and i
want to show my children what it's like
to climb out and i will tell you in the
middle of that hole
i didn't realize that there'd be
millions of eyeballs on me like i didn't
think that part out and i can see myself
when i've watched the show
staring off and i'm realizing at that
time i know exactly what i was thinking
like
maybe i can throw the show as it will
never be on
because i am going to fail
and the whole world is going to watch me
fail which means what i did in the past
was luck it was all all the things you
fear in life of going you know am i
really that good or was it luck right
and so it was a moment where i said i
want to run i want to hide i don't want
to face these demons and these things
because i'm going to look bad
and
and again that was the moment when i go
this is the time to stand tall right and
so digging out and it worked really well
and everything turned out to where i'm
very proud of the show
it became probably one of my proudest
moments of my life because
the fear and having that devil on your
you know give up give up just
you can throw this you can you know they
they won't ever have to make the show
all those kind of things we all face
that in our lives it's just not with
millions of people watching right it's
just we i don't this job wasn't what i
thought it would be maybe that the job
over across the street's better that
career over there is better and people
hop because they don't stick to it they
don't
go through the pain they don't go
through the fear and then they end up in
a cycle that goes over and over and over
again right and the ones that are
successful
and i don't just again mean financial
but the successful and fulfilled they
fight through the pain they stay later
they work through it they sacrifice and
then they feel proud because it works it
will work when you do the right thing
and you
struggle and you don't give up right and
so
it all became very uh meaningful because
it my children then got to see this and
that's all i cared about and then when
it got bigger than that and then the
whole world i've had
thousands of people say wow so inspiring
thank you it got me to think about what
i need to do i didn't even
dream that that would happen you know
and i'm so thankful to hear other people
who have been touched by
by that
it's so incredible to
it's so easy to look at somebody else
and think well
they could do it but i wouldn't be able
to do it because they don't have the
kind of fears or the self-doubt or the
limitations that i have right and that's
part of what makes your story
so incredible is a you're honest about
like i was actually thinking about
taking a dive and just like making sure
that the show never came out right
and then you don't and i want to know
is grit something that comes naturally
to you or have you developed tenacity
over time i would say that
it has
developed over time
and i didn't understand it in the
beginning you know i didn't know
what would was happening to me right
again i all of the hard things that
happened in my life i'm very grateful
for because it did
lead me to a place where
now it doesn't seem to be that hard and
so i happen to have a podcast called
grid happens right and it's very but
it's about that grit and it's about the
determination not giving up feeling
um that you're not alone and what you
touch on
i i love that's the best part of why i
like to tell my story i don't like to
lead with
success i like to lead with
vulnerability right i like people to go
god that guy can do it i got a 2.1 in
college
i did a little better than he did right
or whatever right or i didn't go to
college okay you know i
barely went to college you know i mean
you know i learned about paying the
bills through college i didn't really
learn you know much in terms of
you know economical statistics or
whatever you know
how do you you're
you've got the mental fortitude that
you're building up over time you're
learning really powerful lessons at a
time this is mostly i'm sure
pre-internet
so you're cobbling all of this stuff
together yourself how then do you begin
to get what
is on display in undercover billionaire
where you're pivoting where you're
asking things like who's my buyer
instead of just what business do i find
interesting like when do you begin to
learn these business lessons yeah
there's been a lot of
hardship in
my career as well as successes right and
and
so when i look back on everything that
happened to me i always
thought this was the end and then there
was aha right and then something would
just take me to another level you know
and i mean like a million things i would
sit in the meeting with the government
with all of these contractors and i
would be one of the contractors and
they'd be complaining
we can't do this anymore because they
would all be yelling about some little
you know issue
and i'll give you an example real quick
they would they would notarize deeds
they said we cannot notarize the
government's deeds anymore unless the
government comes and signs in front of
us and this is illegal
and they would just you know and they're
all complaining and i
yeah i agree with i thought so when the
the meeting ended i got up and said why
don't i bring my
notary in every day at lunch to just
sign the deeds so we end up signing tens
of thousands of deeds a year
making all the money and i paid her you
know an extra
you know
whatever to come in on our lunch time
right and
our company thrived off of that it was
just they're just little things that
other people see as problems and you can
go but it's
pretty
clear that there's a opportunity right
here that's one of the more interesting
things to me about your mentality so
it's like with investing they say you
know when there's blood in the streets
that's when you buy
and when other people are you know just
like trying to gobble things up that's
when you sell
at a time where everybody else was
closing down you were opening up how do
you find the opportunity i've always ran
into the fire you know literally when i
was a kid
i remember
my
sister
ran into the laundry room in our because
they would like five times they caught
the laundry room on fire whoa
and one time
my sister had run in there she was like
three
and i was out there and everyone was
like the fire was coming out of the
building right and no one was doing
anything about it and i ran in there and
crawled on the floor and found her and
dragged her out whoa and it would be
like why didn't anybody else do that
like i did i remember always for some
weird reason running against the crowd i
don't know why right but i would just go
the opposite way
i can
you know my dog ate the little
you know electric cord and it was
flopping around and everyone ran they
were afraid and i i ran over there and i
pulled it out of the wall right like i'm
going why doesn't anyone else they
always run away and i i don't know why
but then i began to like the fact
that when
people
ran away i'd run the other way and so
then business that would happen and
became very clear to me when everyone
dove out the window
i thought look at all of this
opportunity look at all this talent
nobody's gobbling up this talent i could
never get these people in a normal world
and so i opened five offices of failed
companies november 07. open five more
with each with like 20 to 50 people in
each office and i did that the next year
and then we shot to the moon you know
because everyone else
had
sat on the sidelines for two years and i
gobbled up all the talent
yeah that to me so it's very interesting
that that started out very early for you
um that definitely did not start early
for me but you do begin to realize okay
in in disruption there is opportunity
and one of the things that given the way
you talk on undercover billionaire i'm
guessing that this is true for you as
well so what ray dalio calls principles
that you do something in life and you
realize okay that worked that didn't
work and so you begin to formulate these
things the next time i encounter this i
will act in this way right and one of
the like hard and fast beliefs that i
have is in disruption there is
opportunity so you want to look for that
moment where everybody else is
either annoyed that a change is coming
along so think of social media so one of
the the key elements to my success was
recognizing social media was a business
tool when everybody else just thought it
was a
you know distraction right and so when
people get annoyed or pissed off about
something it's like that's the very
thing i want to go look at because
there's something that's causing a
disruption in their life which is why
they don't like it let me tie this to
the horatio alger award
that a you're a recipient of but you're
also part of that committee that looks
for people that have overcome
extraordinarily difficult situations
people that can see an opportunity and
difficulty to me that's like the thing
right like i said earlier the only
belief that matters is that you can pull
it off so
somebody that's in that gnarly gnarly
gnarly situation how what is it that
allows some people to see the
opportunity and stops other people from
seeing it because i know that in you
guys have had i don't know if you call
them students recipients whatever that
they did well but their brothers and
sisters imploded right and we have
studied that tried to figure out why why
in the same family
you'll have three brothers and sisters
that are in jail or die of drugs and one
that just uses education as their way
out right and they say i don't want to
be anything like this family what is the
difference they've gone through the same
hardship they've been and endured so
much adversity
why do they stand out and
i don't know if we've ever found this
answer yet you know but what i do know
is
that person
that young person that has said i'm
going to
take tools and better myself to get
myself out of this situation
i want to invest in that person
and so that's where i put my energy
personally
and the horatio alger association
does that right we get 40 000
applicants a year to
help and these are all people who have
gone through a lot of severe adversity
and we help maybe 35 to 4 000 3 500 4
students a year
by giving them scholarships to college
and then we have
a um when we go through our
award ceremony we have about 110 or so
scholars that are national scholars that
we bring in and we we meet we mentor and
we spend three or four days with them
every year in washington dc
and then my wife and i have gone and
done other events with them
outside of the association
but i'm fascinated with that person i
feel like i've
led a
similar life but i did it by accident
right like i didn't say education was my
way out
i fell in the education
barely graduated but i learned lessons
along the way right i learned how to get
a pell grant how to you know these kind
of things these kids are determined
these kids are focused on knowing that
you know if i
you know can get myself
a good education i will be able to get a
great job and i'll be able to live a
different life and so
i
absolutely
am fascinated by those people and
they'll be tomorrow's leaders because
they also you got to think right when
i've had
many friends but one especially that i
can tell you he never touched adversity
his family you know had really
helped
make sure he had a very
easy life and at the age of 40
leading his business it had a very big
turn and he couldn't get out of bed for
two weeks right
and thought the world was over
and yet
once he got through all that he really
got some thicker skin and he learned
that's
you know he had lived a pretty
extraordinary life never to face any
real adversity here are these kids that
face so much adversity early on that
when they hit a business issue or
something it's gonna be like yeah this
is this is nothing what are some of the
tenets of zen so i studied zen i got
really hardcore into taoism when i was
younger like way hardcore
uh which led me then to studying
buddhism i would definitely never claim
to say that i practiced it but studied
buddhism
a fair amount
zen i found maybe the most intriguing
but confusing what are some of the like
core tenets of zen
so um i had this opportunity to meet my
mentor um later on uh his name is wahed
takeda
so when i asked him to teach about money
he said his first lesson is forget about
money so i'm so confused yeah one of the
things that i found super um confusing
and people so the where i was going is
the notion of a zen cohen and this is
something that people probably in the us
anyway be tangentially familiar with the
most famous one we talk about is what is
the sound of one hand clapping
um and there are many zen cones which
are like beyond confusing and of course
the idea is once you understand sort of
the absurdity of the question itself
and of course i'm i'm doing this from a
logical perspective and zen is i think
meant to be very different than that but
um just to give people an anchor point
once you understand the absurdity of the
question then it's like you're a step
closer to enlightenment um
so when he said forget about money what
was he
what was he trying to get you to like
what does that mean because obviously
it's not truly forget that it exists yes
so what does he mean so i think he meant
about where i focus
because if you want money you have to
forget about money you have to forget
about what you can give to other people
how much service you can give out to the
world and then you receive money
so he was telling me not to focus on
money because money is the end result of
what we get after serving the world
so instead of focusing on what you get
you have to really focus on what you
give
and and our life is in the middle of
giving and receiving
so unless we receive well unless we we
give well we can receive
so we're in this cycle of appreciation
or or resentment um either cycle you're
in
your life exists
so if you start appreciating your life
about everything including money your
life will be filled with money and
appreciation if your life will be filled
with resentment anger and fear
around money and also around life your
life will be also surrounded by like uh
fear and resentment and anxiety so he
taught me
how to focus instead of uh just getting
the end result of money and he was very
well respected because he was talking
about philanthropy so i'm teaching
about happiness and money ever since
yeah that the idea that he's been so
incredibly successful obviously lends a
lot of credence
to the things that he says and one of
the things that i wanted to understand
better about his teachings to you and
your teachings you've written so
prolifically
what what is it like
how does it get that big how does the
topic sort of expand so far what is it
that people are getting wrong and what
are some of the like universal
principles that are going to lead people
to
um
i'll say wealth and it's probably worth
defining how would you define wealth and
then we'll go back to those two
questions
in my mind wealth is uh an emotion
you know it doesn't really matter how
much you have how much you make
because i've interviewed over the course
of my career i've interviewed many
millionaires and billionaires
and some of them are very unhappy and
very upset with everything i'm sure
you've met some happy ones and very
unhappy ones
so
and also among the people uh who are
struggling with life they are also happy
people and unhappy people so i think
wealth is an attitude if you feel like
you're so happy and so content with what
you have you are already wealthy but if
you have uh uh you have if you have to
struggle every day and you cannot find
happiness um either in your business or
in personal life i think you're not
wealthy even if you have billions in
your bank account
but that doesn't mean that you don't
have to have money
that's what i like about your approach
is there there is a recognition so part
of the reason that i think that people
continue to strive for money i live the
nightmare of money camp by you happiness
i had heard a thousand people tell me
that money wasn't gonna buy me happiness
that you know pursuing money outright
was gonna end up being a problem and i
still had to do it and when i ran into
the wall of oh really truly money cannot
buy you happiness how is it that i ended
up here when all the people told me that
this was going to be the outcome why did
i have to walk this path like why
couldn't i just accept their wisdom and
i realized that one of the things that
people don't talk about is that money
really is powerful money is you call it
energy um i'll call it power like money
gives you the ability to close your eyes
imagine something that you want to
create and then open your eyes and
actually be able to do it and if you
have the skill set of course and so
there there's real utility in money and
when people talk about
and i've heard you say before i don't
want to get too spiritual like i want to
keep this grounded and i think that
that's really important because if you
tell people hey forget about money
because money doesn't matter there's
going to be a turn off but if you tell
people hey forget about money because
it's going to reorient your mindset it's
going to change your behaviors it's
going to align your behaviors to
something that's actually going to
allow you to generate actual money
then i think that it draws people in a
little bit more so with that context i
want to go back to the two questions so
what are the mistakes that people make
and what are some universal things
people need to understand if they
actually want to
be wealthy in the way that you just
defined
so i think most of us
the biggest problem i think especially
today is that we are so afraid of money
and so as much as we want money we are
so scared of it so uh why do you say
that i think that that hit me is very
counterintuitive
why why do you think people are scared
of money it's because of a money trauma
i call it money wounds that we we've had
since our childhood we used to have some
unless your parents are perfect and
unfortunately it's not the case in in in
any any culture so we've been scolded
about money you know we spent too much
we wasted the money or we denied a
corrected lesson or sucker lesson or a
ballet lesson or piano lessons because
it's expensive
some of my friends were taught you are
not worth it well that's like that's a
big blow so
we've been denied so many times around
money
so that's why as much as we want money
because we feel
uh money can buy happiness so money
money can buy at least freedom but at
the same times money
have been abused abused us for so many
ways so as much as we want to get close
to it but if we get too close to it we
get burns or like hurt so uh for a lot
of people money is a mystery
person so how do they begin to change
that relationship i'm assuming some of
this is going to be just narrative
around how they talk to themselves about
money what do you advise people you have
to start watching your your language
my mother used to say that and then uh
around money especially
a lot of people say like you know i was
ripped off so there are so many negative
uh language around money and my mentor
has said you have to use positive words
around money otherwise money will not
like you
and i really i thought it's very cute
you know and then uh
in my book i talk about
what if
if if money were a person who would it
be like is that a person a gentle person
or angry person so just um you know
you have to pay attention to how you
relate to money
if you just
feel like money is just a thing like you
don't care but if you don't care
you know you end up being in debt so you
have to be very careful and respectful
for money uh for some japanese people
actually one of my students made futon
in a bed for a wallet
it's so cute
to to show respect you know why i rest
please uh money and credit cards please
rest here too so it's like a little bed
like like a cat cat bed
and then you're supposed to put your
wallet into the bed so it's just a
metaphor but unless you show respect to
money and the money coming in money
going out both ways
you cannot really feel you cannot feel
peaceful around money especially
uh
this hard time of economy you have to
really
um pay close attention to your emotions
and most of us are so controlled by
anxiety and fear and money that's why do
things which are not really true to us
to in order to survive so we feel like
uh if we have no money we cannot survive
that means your death so uh the funny
switch is turned on uh it's i think it's
a survival mechanism um you know 200
years ago or 300 years ago everybody was
a farmer nobody's
you know probably don't use much money
but
now unless you have money you you cannot
buy food so
money and survival are so tight in your
system
so as people begin to tell themselves a
new narrative they build the futon bed
for their wallet um they think about who
that person is
and they i'm guessing a lot of people
are gonna think of that person as
abusive or
um you know they wander off and they
don't have a good relationship with that
so how do they begin to change their
mindset around that how do they begin to
to
turn that narrative do you do you tell
them to imagine somebody who is kind or
gentle
what is that process
so uh but since we we've been abused we
feel like we've been abused by this
person we're a little scared of this
person right so i think the first step
is actually to step up my mentor
thank you money when money comes in
either by in a form of government check
or a salary or commission or whatever
the money you receive
you say thank you arigato thank you
money for coming in
because in these days it's so so rare to
find you and then and pay you somebody
pays you right you either could be
government or your husband wife or your
clients there are so many other people
who do the similar job that you do but
they chose you to pay you so like there
are millions of reasons to appreciate
for the money so when money comes in
just say
thank you or arigato or danke or
whatever your language or mercy you know
and and then when you spend money
also arigato you know because you're
getting something for the money and why
he said arigato in arigato out
so it's almost like a karate kid
teaching you know waksing walks up so he
said uh arigato and aligato if you do it
for two months and then come back
so like oh i wanted to have some stock
tips or like investment tips or i
expected something different but the the
thing i got is arigato and i got out and
i practiced for two months and i felt
genuinely happier
so i recommend anybody uh you know
just
try it at least because it doesn't cost
you anything and once you start
appreciating money coming in money going
out you start appreciating about other
things so this uh arigato and arigato
out opens a door
to a new life which is full of
appreciation and i think we definitely
need that uh waher said appreciation
melts fear and anxiety so if you start
and if you keep appreciating money
coming and going out you cannot worry
about money at the same time because a
human mind can focus one thing at the
time so why he has a very interesting
unique trick uh of um
so like changing our
wire in the brain so once you start
appreciating
it's so funny because one of my students
said oh gee ken i forgot to worry about
money for a week
because you folk focus on appreciation
yeah i think this is really powerful is
is a very important first step and when
i think about my own journey um
i won't say that i had a negative view
about money and if you had asked me to
describe what money was i probably would
have whoever i could think of that was
like glamorous and exciting and powerful
like that was my vision of money which
is why i was chasing it so hard
[Music]
ultimately coming to understand okay i'm
making more money than i've ever made
but i'm not happier than i've ever been
and the neurochemistry that i want to
feel like this is not taking me there
and so i began to what
what i began to do was change my
behavior so i changed my story about
money that what i flipped over into was
the only thing that matters is feeling
alive so i'm gonna stop chasing money
i'm gonna start thinking about value and
so i had a very negative connotation
around money and i just said look i'm
going to set that aside for now and i'm
just going to pursue
fulfillment i'm going to do things to
add value to people's lives i'm going to
work to improve myself that was a huge
part for me was always wanting to get
better myself
and what i found was i needed both i
needed a change of mindset i needed to
stop thinking money was going to solve
my problems but i also needed to change
my behaviors and ultimately i don't i no
one is ever going to think their way to
success
i think that
you're you
you have to think in a new way that is
advantageous but you have to act in a
new way that's advantageous so after you
know when you do the wax on wax off like
eventually we do find ourselves in a
karate tournament and we really do have
to fight yes so what does that look like
especially now in this crazy economy
that we're going through right now
let's get let's go to that next phase so
people are they're already arigato money
in arigato money out they've got the
futon for their wallet like they're in a
zen place like they're doing good now
like you retired at 29 not just because
you were thinking you retired at 29
because you ran businesses you got very
thoughtful about how to generate money
and save it um how should people be
acting with their money so we get now
how they should be thinking but how
should they be acting with their money
thank you tom i think it's a beautiful
question and i i think that's exactly
what we need to learn
but because
once you start appreciating your life
shifts too
for example one of the readers on my
book
she was a single mom
with a low paying job she was working as
a secretary and then she came to me and
she used to complain about
her low paying job but after reading my
book she
changed her attitude and she started
appreciating about life and boss and and
she realized that she didn't have a
college degree
but she got she was hired as a secretary
so that's a big reason to appreciate her
boss
before she was always complaining about
him
and i think the feeling really probably
came across to his uh her boss and she
got a big raise in a few weeks
so once you start appreciating i i've
heard so many stories i can even write
few books on this
once you start appreciating your boss
your clients uh they appreciate you back
so uh in my 20s the reason why i i was
successful was i was a little unique
in so many different things for example
when i was doing accounting consulting i
divided my uh clients to two groups one
i do regular job the other i always
bring something whenever i got to meet
them just a herb tea japanese tea like a
book or just not super expensive
so in six months i got so many referrals
from
the gift giving groups you know i didn't
ask for any clients right but they gave
me so many referrals and the second you
know group uh not so much so
i
recommend everybody to start giving more
uh something a little extra nuts like 30
more but something to to show
appreciation and
uh it doesn't really matter if you're
florist or cleaners or
business lawyers or a dentist if you
start giving something you get more so
this is the law i think if you give more
you receive more and then there is one
more extra reason to appreciate about so
you you your life would shift so your
whole energy would be so different and
so content and i think people want to do
business with happier people you know
people don't want to go with people who
are very depressed
so the people with the radiance of
appreciation often attracts more people
and more opportunities so this is not a
new age or a spiritual thing it's a
practice to to um to appreciate more so
what you appreciate appreciates and i
think it's it's so simple so start
appreciating about money is the first
step and then start second step is start
appreciating what you have
and if you start sharing what you have i
call it gift
uh all of us have gifts i've written
probably like uh half of my books 20
books on how to discover your gifts and
monetize them
because uh we're born each of us is born
with a special gift and something to be
shared with this
planet and if you can find it and if you
can uh improve it and you can you can
polish it and just share with a society
i think
that translates into money so i wrote a
national bestseller
do what you love and make sure money
follows you
so it's very important you have to have
both
but i remember being in there and saying
to myself like what the hell am i doing
telling myself this crap like if i feel
this way this is why i'm going to be my
dad and i remember at that moment i
changed the story and i started thinking
to myself and it didn't happen overnight
so this is what i want to encourage you
when you find the bad story find a way
to just reverse the whole thing